1. What do you do to continue your education?

I believe it is important for successful attorneys to stay abreast of the latest news in the industry. To that end, I attend the continuing education opportunities provided by my alma mater and the local bar association. I strive to attend conferences and workshops each year in order to interact with and learn from my peers. I read published papers and journals as well in order to keep a clear understanding of the latest industry-related news.

2. Can you talk about the clinical work you did during law school?

I was able to do my clinical work at an externship clinic near Queens. This offered me my first real hands-on experience with the legal aspects of being an attorney. I ended up working with juveniles who were being tried in criminal court. The work was eye-opening and gave me a small window into the change I could help enact if I pursued this type of legal work. I gained the ability to interview and counsel my clients with confidence as well as build a relationship based on mutual respect and understanding. I was able to practice doing legal research related to these types of defense cases, which I think will help me at this practice. The one skill of mine that was honed the most during the clinical work was my negotiation ability. I learned a lot about what it takes to negotiate for my client’s well-being and best interest.

3. What qualities do you think a good attorney should have?

I think a good attorney needs to be able to analyze different situations, solve complex problems and communicate clearly. These are three of the most important skills an attorney should have. The analytical and problem-solving skills are used on a daily basis to help clients solve their issues, research cases and create solid defense strategies. Communication is obviously important for an attorney because of the need to communicate with the jury, client and judge. I’m really proud of my ability to create trusting relationships with my clients, and this ability allows me to get an entirely different sense of worth out of my career.

4. What type of law career are you hoping to have and how will this position help you?

As you can see on my resume, I have some experience in the corporate law world, but my heart has always been in environmental law. I know this job may not be glamourous, but I see it as a great step toward the environmental lawyer career I have always wanted. This company is well known for its foray into environmental law, so I am excited to get a chance to work in the company even if it is in a different sector.

5. How would you go about building a relationship with your clients?

Every client-attorney relationship, in my opinion, has to be built on mutual respect. I have to get my client to trust me and my skills enough to answer my questions with complete honesty. Many legal cases require the client to share personal information. I build this respectful and trusting relationship by being friendly, patient and understanding. The process of building a relationship may take a while, but it is so rewarding when it happens.

Make yourself a clear candidate by confidently answering common attorney interview questions. Simply review commonly made inquiries and practice your responses so you will be ready to wow the hiring manager.


